The class of +adequate links contains both alternating and positive links. Generalizing results of Tanaka (for the positive case) and Ng (for the alternating case), we construct fronts of an arbitrary +adequate link A so that the diagram has a ruling, therefore its Thurston-Bennequin number is maximal among Legendrian representatives of A. We derive consequences for the Kauffman polynomial and Khovanov homology of +adequate links. Maximum Thurston-Bennequin number, denoted by tb, is a knot invariant that has drawn a lot of recent interest. Its definition is possible because Bennequin's inequality, tb ≤ 2g − 1, bounds from above the ThurstonBennequin number of Legendrian representatives 1 of any knot type by (essentially) the genus g of the knot. Either Bennequin's inequality itself or other bounds, for example the so-called Kauffman bound on tb [9], make the extension to links possible. Recall that the Thurston-Bennequin number is computed from an oriented front diagram by subtracting the number of right cusps from the writhe of the diagram; tb is the maximum of these numbers for all fronts representing a given link type. The Kauffman bound states that tb, and thus tb is strictly 1 To avoid undue repetition and to keep this note short, for the standard definitions of Legendrian knot theory we refer the reader to [2], [5] , or to any number of other publications. Let us only state that we work in R 3 xyz where the contact structure is the kernel of dz − ydx, so that the front projection is the xz-projection.    Maximum Thurston-Bennequin number, denoted by tb, is a knot invariant that has drawn a lot of recent interest. Its definition is possible because Bennequin's inequality, tb ≤ 2g − 1, bounds from above the ThurstonBennequin number of Legendrian representatives 1 of any knot type by (essentially) the genus g of the knot. Either Bennequin's inequality itself or other bounds, for example the so-called Kauffman bound on tb [9] , make the extension to links possible. Recall that the Thurston-Bennequin number is computed from an oriented front diagram by subtracting the number of right cusps from the writhe of the diagram; tb is the maximum of these numbers for all fronts representing a given link type. The Kauffman bound states that tb, and thus tb is strictly 1 To avoid undue repetition and to keep this note short, for the standard definitions of Legendrian knot theory we refer the reader to [2] , [5] , or to any number of other publications. Let us only state that we work in R 3 xyz where the contact structure is the kernel of dz − ydx, so that the front projection is the xz-projection. less than the minimum v-degree (or −1 times the maximum a-degree) of the Kauffman polynomial 2 . The value of tb is known for the following infinite classes of knots and links: positive links [11] (see also [13] ) 2-bridge links [7] and more generally, alternating links [8] , negative torus knots [3] , and Whitehead doubles with sufficiently negative framing [4] . In the positive and alternating cases, the proofs of Tanaka and Ng proceed as follows: For the given knot or link, they construct a certain front diagram. Tanaka uses the Kauffman bound (i.e., establishes that it's sharp for the front) to show that its Thurston-Bennequin number is maximal. Ng uses the so-called Khovanov bound for the same purpose, but it turns out that the Kauffman bound works just as easily in his case as well. (The Kauffman bound is known to be not sharp for many other knots, such as those where the Khovanov bound actually improves it [8] , and also for negative (p, q) torus knots with p > q and q even 3 [4] .) Recently, Rutherford [10] clarified when the Kauffman bound is sharp by verifying the Fuchs conjecture: a necessary and sufficient condition is the existence of a so-called ungraded ruling (a.k.a. decomposition) for at least one Legendrian representative of the link. That representative then has maximum Thurston-Bennequin number.  Definition 1.  An ungraded ruling is a partial splicing of a front diagram where certain crossings, called switches, are replaced by a pair of arcs as in Figure 1 so that the diagram becomes a (not necessarily disjoint) union of standard unknot diagrams, called eyes. (An eye is a pair of arcs connecting the same two cusps that contain no other cusps and that otherwise do not meet, not even at switches.) We also impose the so-called normality condition: in the vertical (x = const.) slice of the diagram through each switch, the two eyes that meet at the switch follow one of the three configurations in the middle of Figure 1 . The notion of a +adequate link is a common generalization of positive and alternating links 4 , introduced in [6] (see also [12] ). In this paper, we use Rutherford's theorem to unify 5 Tanaka's and Ng's approaches: that is, we 2 It seems to be standard to use either v and z or a = v −1 and z as the variables in the Kauffman polynomial; see [1] . The 'Dubrovnik version' has the same degree distribution. 3 What Fuchs proves about these is that they do not possess rulings; see below for the significance of this fact in the light of Rutherford's theorem. The same observation also shows that it is not possible to extend the methods of this paper to homogeneous links. 4 Another such generalization, homogeneous links, will be alluded to in Example 7. 5 We could use Proposition 7 of [8] to the same effect. . What is true in the converse direction is that if in a front diagram, the set of all crossings is a ruling (Ng calls these fronts with admissible 0-resolution in [8] ), then that diagram is +adequate. In fact, any +adequate link diagram can be isotoped into a front diagram where the set of all crossings serves as the set of switches in an ungraded ruling. Figure 6 summarizes the procedure; in particular, the eyes in the ruling are exactly the state circles. (To follow the proof below, and in particular the proof of Lemma 5, we suggest to first read pages 1647-1649 of [8] , in particular steps 1, 2, and 3.) Proof. We may generalize either Tanaka's or Ng's construction, but the latter seems to be more straightforward. In [8] , it is proved that every alternating link projection can be deformed by a diffeomorphism of the plane into "Mondrian position" where the black regions are arbitrarily close to horizontal line segments, and the two arcs in a neighborhood of each crossing are arbitrarily close to vertical line segments connecting the horizontal ones. In such a position, the horizontal line segments are essentially the eyes of an ungraded ruling. A more precise formulation of Ng's results is the following: A Mondrian diagram is a union of a set of disjoint horizontal line segments and a set of disjoint vertical ones; each of the latter start and end on a horizontal segment, and doesn't intersect other horizontal segments. Contracting a Mondrian diagram means contracting the horizontal segments to points; Ng proves that any 6 planar graph is the contraction of some Mondrian diagram, and then applies this to the graph whose vertices are the black regions of the alternating diagram and whose edges correspond to crossings. In the case of a general +adequate diagram D, state circles are nested, giving rise to a partial ordering among them. An example is shown in Figure  6 . We may first apply Ng's construction to the diagram consisting of those circles that are not contained in others, i.e. ones that are maximal in the partial order (these are 1, 2, 3, and 4 in Figure 6 ). More precisely, define a planar graph whose vertices are the maximal state circles and whose edges correspond to crossings of D connecting two such. Obtain this planar graph as the contraction of a Mondrian diagram. Then, the resulting horizontal line segments (corresponding to the maximal state circles) can be slightly thickened into rectangles to make room for the remaining parts of the diagram, which are arranged again by starting from the outermost state circles. This can be applied successively toward lower and lower levels of the partial order, resulting in an 'iterated Mondrian diagram.' (The upper right subdiagram of Figure 6 is an illustration.) Below, we explain this procedure in greater detail. An important technical difficulty is that the order of outward and inward crossings along any state circle needs to be respected. (See Figure 3 ; note that another distinguishing feature of alternating diagrams is that along their state circles, with the possible exception of a single outermost circle, all crossings are outer.) In our process, we turn each state circle into a narrow horizontal rectangle and we arrange the outward crossings first along the upper and lower sides of the rectangle. Thus, a subdivision of the inward crossings is created into upper and lower ones as well (those inward crossings found at the ends of the rectangle can be arbitrarily assigned to upper or lower). So in order to make the above idea precise, we need a slight strengthening of Proposition 11 of [8] . This is stated as Lemma 5, and is proved after the current proof. With it, once the first step (Mondrian diagram for the graph of the outermost state circles) is in place, all further steps in our process are carried out as follows. If a horizontal line segment corresponds to a state circle s that contains other state circles, the outermost of which form the graph G, thicken the line segment into a rectangle R. Recall that the crossings of D along s that are inner to s are classified into upper and lower ones. Augment G with the vertices u and l. If the state circle corresponding to the vertex x of G is connected to s through an upper crossing, connect x to u with an edge, and similarly to l if a lower crossing exists between the circle and s. To the resulting planar graph G ′ with its two marked vertices, apply the After an isotopy, M can be copied into R so that u ′ and v ′ (suitably lengthened) are the horizontal sides of R. The inner and outer crossings along s = ∂R can be properly arranged by the following observation: Let K be one of the half-infinite vertical strips above or below R. Any isotopy of K to itself that fixes ∂K pointwise and preserves horizontal and vertical lines takes iterated Mondrian diagrams to iterated Mondrian diagrams. The planar diagram that results from the above inductive procedure can easily be turned into a front diagram by applying the operations shown in Figure 4 : any horizontal line segments that weren't thickened into rectangles are now thickened into Legendrian unknot diagrams; rectangles are also isotoped into such; and finally, the vertical segments are changed into crossings. It's very easy to see that the front we constructed has an ungraded ruling: The unknot diagrams we've just constructed (Figure 4 ) from the state circles play the role of eyes and all crossings are switches. The corresponding discs are either disjoint or contained in one another, thus the normality condition is satisfied. Proof. We will take advantage of some of the flexibilities left in Ng's construction. He first builds a 'step-shaped' Mondrian diagram (see Figure 4 of [8] ) for each so-called enhanced cycle C of G. (An enhanced cycle is a subgraph of G obtained as follows: Separate G at its separating crossings. The (outer) boundary cycle of each resulting component, along with any other edges that connect two of its vertices, forms an enhanced cycle.) Instead of steps, we'll construct podium-shaped diagrams, as shown in Figure 5 . The vertices that correspond to top and bottom (base) can be arbitrarily selected. The vertical pieces correspond to the edges of the boundary cycleC of C. We choose the horizontal levels on the two sides so that they are all different. Now all edges in C\C have an upper and lower horizontal piece to connect. From each upper piece, we drop vertical line segments to the corresponding lower levels, arranged from left to right as suggested by the embedding of C into the plane. Then we extend each left step to the right and each right step to the left to meet all the lower ends designated to it. The planarity of C guarantees that this results in no 'undesignated' intersections between horizontal and vertical segments, hence we get a Mondrian diagram. It is also strong in the sense of [8] , thus step 4 of Ng's construction does not have to be modified at all. Then in step 3, Ng joins these building blocks in a tree-like fashion ( Figure  5 of [8] ), placing the base of each new step/podium onto the extension of the appropriate horizontal line segment. Let us use the enhanced cycle containing l as the root of the tree and, of course, draw its podium-shaped diagram so that its base l ′ contracts to l. As they are attached, draw the consecutive podium-shaped diagrams successively smaller so that at least one end of each horizontal piece is visible from above. (For segments that serve as a base at some point, this is achieved by making them stick out slightly from underneath the podium.) When we reach the enhanced cycle containing u in the construction, we select the corresponding horizontal line segment u ′ to be uppermost in its podium-shaped diagram. By the above visibility condition, u ′ can be arranged to be the uppermost of all horizontal pieces thus far. In order to keep it that way, we need one last modification to Ng's construction: If at a later time, a podium-shaped diagram is to be attached to u ′ , we attach it from underneath, i.e. we construct the branch of the tree starting there upside down. Proof. The front we constructed in Theorem 4 has Thurston-Bennequin number as stated, which in turn is maximal and realizes the Kauffman bound by Rutherford's theorem. By the same, the said coefficients of the Kauffman polynomial represent counts of rulings and hence are not negative. The statement on Khovanov homology is a direct consequence of Proposition 8 of [8] . Thistlethwaite [12] observed that up to 11 crossings, every knot or its mirror is +adequate. The invariant tb does distinguish mirrors, but at least for half of the knots up to 11 crosings, Corollary 6 determines tb. Example 7. The Kinoshita-Terasaka knot (11n 42 ) is a so-called adequate knot, i.e. it has a +adequate diagram which remains +adequate after switching all crossings. (Its trivial Alexander polynomial shows that the knot is not homogeneous [1, section 7.6] , in particular it is neither alternating nor positive (or negative).) Thus, we may use our method to construct a maximum tb diagram for both the knot and its mirror, showing that tb(11n 42 ) = −7 and tb(11n
