The Government of India has presented an expanded support of AYUSH arrangement of medicine and foundation of Indian frameworks of solution strength focuses. Taking this vision forward, the Rashtrapati Bhavan with help of Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India; set up the primary AYUSH Wellness Clinic (AWC) of the nation at President's Estate in July 2015. The AWC has treatment facilities in the surges of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy. AWC takes into account the restorative needs of the President, authorities of President's Secretariat and occupants of the President's Estate. This paper exhibits a report on the achievement and the work done at AWC from its origin in July 2015 to January 2018. A sum of 82137 patients was counselled and almost 46443 gotten different treatments endorsed by the doctors amid this day and age. AYUSH mindfulness workshops are being directed for consistently. New activities in the year 2015 incorporate foundation of home grown garden at the AWC premises, assigned touch screen intuitive stand and beginning Skill-improvement and Internship Program for the occupants. New activities in the year 2016 incorporate Village out-achieve program and support in the Festival of Innovation at Rashtrapati Bhavan. As new activity in the year 2017-new therapies were added to the current administrations in Ayurveda wing, Yoga and Naturopathy wing and Unani wing; the therapists and bolster staffs working at AWC were prepared in First-AID and CPR and 22 research papers were distributed in peer evaluated indexed journals.  OUR MISSION  Our mission is achieving and maintaining excellence in healthcare services through Indian system of medicine and Homoeopathy. We provide comprehensive healthcare services to our valued beneficiaries in form of consultations and therapy through our Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha & Homeopathy OPDs. Along with consultation, medicine, and therapies; disease prevention and positive health promotion services are also provided at AWC.  SERVICE DELIVERY MECHANISM  Patient data is maintained by the special clinic software designed by National Informatics Centre, Ministry of Electronics and IT, Government of India. Automatic OPD cards are generated by entering patient details. The detail of diagnosis and medicine/therapy prescribed is entered into the software by consulting physicians 4 .  HUMAN RESOURCE  The committed human resource working at the clinic includes one male and one female physician in all five wings namely Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha & Homeopathy. Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani and Siddha wings have one male and one female therapist. Yoga and Naturopathy wing has an additional Yoga therapist. Besides this, all wings have one male and one female MTS and all except Yoga and Naturopathy have a pharmacist 4 .  OVERVIEW OF PATIENTS RECEIVING SERVICES  An overwhelming number of patients have benefitted from the healthcare services being provided at AWC. The overview of the beneficiaries from January to December 2017 is given below in Table 1 and Table 2 .  INFORMATION, EDUCATION & COMMUNICATION (IEC)  AWC is promoting Indian system of medicine and Homoeopathy through sustained Safed musli (Chlorophytum borivilianum) and Pomegratnate tree (Punica granatum).  Interactive touch screen Kiosk  An interactive touch screen kiosk was put in the OPD wing of AWC. This unique kiosk was designated to inform the clinic beneficiaries about the different AYUSH systems, their strength and treatment options available. The subject matter was provided by respectice research councils and the technical support was provided by NIC.  Skill Development and Internship Programme  Skill
